README.md, before:

# NixOS Vagrant Plugin

This plugin adds nix provisioning for [NixOS](http://nixos.org) guests to
[Vagrant](http://www.vagrantup.com).

Vagrant 1.6.4+ itself already provides capabilities to change the hostname and
networking settings by generating `/etc/nixos/vagrant-{network,hostname}.nix`
files but then doesn't invoke `nixos-rebuild switch`.

This plugin takes care of that, plus gives different ways for the user to
configure the VM using a special DSL.

## Install:

NOTE: this project is a fork of the `vagrant-nixos` gem. Both can't be
      installed at the same time.

```bash
$ vagrant plugin install vagrant-nixos-plugin
```

## Example Vagrantfile

```ruby
Vagrant.configure("2") do |config|

  # Use a suitable NixOS base. VM built with nixbox are tested to work with
  # this plugin.
  config.vm.box = "zimbatm/nixos-15.09-x86_64"

  # set hostname
  config.vm.hostname = "nixy"

  # Setup networking
  config.vm.network "private_network", ip: "172.16.16.16"

  # Add the htop package
  config.vm.provision :nixos, expression: {
    environment: {
      systemPackages: [ :htop ]
    }
  }

end
```

In the above `Vagrantfile` example we provision the box using the
`:expression` method, which will perform a simple ruby -> nix conversion.
`:expression` provisioning creates a nix module that executes with `pkgs` in
scope. It is roughly equivilent to the below version that uses the `:inline`
method.

```ruby
config.vm.provision :nixos,
  inline: %{
{config, pkgs, ...}: with pkgs; {
  environment.systemPackages = [ htop ];
}
  },
  NIX_PATH: "/custom/path/to/nixpkgs"
```

The above example also shows the optional setting of a custom `NIX_PATH` path.

You can also use an external nix configuration file:

```ruby
config.vm.provision :nixos, path: "configuration.nix"
```

If you need provisioning to be included explicitly during rebuild use:

```ruby
config.vm.provision :nixos,
  path: “configuration.nix”,
  include: true
```

You can enable verbose provision output during rebuild process with:

```ruby
config.vm.provision :nixos,
  path: “configuration.nix”,
  verbose: true
```

If you need to use functions or access values using dot syntax you can use the
`Nix` module:

```ruby
config.vm.provision :nixos, expression: {
  services: {
    postgresql: {
      enable: true,
      package: Nix.pkgs.postgresql93,
      enableTCPIP: true,
      authentication: Nix.lib.mkForce(%{
        local all all              trust
        host  all all 127.0.0.1/32 trust
      }),
      initialScript: "/etc/nixos/postgres.sql"
    }
  }
}
```


## How it works

In nixos we don't mess around with the files in `/etc` instead we write
expressions for the system configuration starting in
`/etc/nixos/configuration.nix`.

This plugin sets some ground rules for nixos boxes to keep this configuration
clean and provisioning possible.

Box creators should ensure that their `configuration.nix` file imports an nix
module `/etc/nixos/vagrant.nix` which will be overwritten by
`vagrant-nixos-plugin` during `vagrant up` or `vagrant provision`.

See the configuration in our
[NixOS packer template](http://github.com/zimbatm/nixbox) for an example.

## Issues

It's a bit slow on the initial boot/provision at the moment as it must run
nixos-rebuild several times. This is far from ideal I'm sure I'll find a
better place to hook in the rebuild step soon.

Commit message:

README: recommend to always run the provisioner

README.md, after:

# NixOS Vagrant Plugin

This plugin adds nix provisioning for [NixOS](http://nixos.org) guests to
[Vagrant](http://www.vagrantup.com).

Vagrant 1.6.4+ itself already provides capabilities to change the hostname and
networking settings by generating `/etc/nixos/vagrant-{network,hostname}.nix`
files but then doesn't invoke `nixos-rebuild switch`.

This plugin takes care of that, plus gives different ways for the user to
configure the VM using a special DSL.

## Install:

NOTE: this project is a fork of the `vagrant-nixos` gem. Both can't be
      installed at the same time.

```bash
$ vagrant plugin install vagrant-nixos-plugin
```

## Example Vagrantfile

```ruby
Vagrant.configure("2") do |config|

  # Use a suitable NixOS base. VM built with nixbox are tested to work with
  # this plugin.
  config.vm.box = "zimbatm/nixos-15.09-x86_64"

  # set hostname
  config.vm.hostname = "nixy"

  # Setup networking
  config.vm.network "private_network", ip: "172.16.16.16"

  # Add the htop package
  config.vm.provision :nixos,
    run: 'always',
    expression: {
      environment: {
        systemPackages: [ :htop ]
      }
    }

end
```

In the above `Vagrantfile` example we provision the box using the
`:expression` method, which will perform a simple ruby -> nix conversion.
`:expression` provisioning creates a nix module that executes with `pkgs` in
scope. It is roughly equivilent to the below version that uses the `:inline`
method.

```ruby
config.vm.provision :nixos,
  run: 'always',
  inline: %{
{config, pkgs, ...}: with pkgs; {
  environment.systemPackages = [ htop ];
}
  },
  NIX_PATH: '/vagrant/nixpkgs'
```

The above example also shows the optional setting of a custom `NIX_PATH` path.

You can also use an external nix configuration file:

```ruby
config.vm.provision :nixos, run: 'always', path: "configuration.nix"
```

If you need provisioning to be included explicitly during rebuild use:

```ruby
config.vm.provision :nixos,
  run: 'always',
  path: “configuration.nix”,
  include: true
```

You can enable verbose provision output during rebuild process with:

```ruby
config.vm.provision :nixos,
  run: 'always',
  path: “configuration.nix”,
  verbose: true
```

If you need to use functions or access values using dot syntax you can use the
`Nix` module:

```ruby
config.vm.provision :nixos, expression: {
  services: {
    postgresql: {
      enable: true,
      package: Nix.pkgs.postgresql93,
      enableTCPIP: true,
      authentication: Nix.lib.mkForce(%{
        local all all              trust
        host  all all 127.0.0.1/32 trust
      }),
      initialScript: "/etc/nixos/postgres.sql"
    }
  }
}
```


## How it works

In nixos we don't mess around with the files in `/etc` instead we write
expressions for the system configuration starting in
`/etc/nixos/configuration.nix`.

This plugin sets some ground rules for nixos boxes to keep this configuration
clean and provisioning possible.

Box creators should ensure that their `configuration.nix` file imports an nix
module `/etc/nixos/vagrant.nix` which will be overwritten by
`vagrant-nixos-plugin` during `vagrant up` or `vagrant provision` and by
vagrant for the /etc/nixos/vagrant-hostname.nix and
/etc/nixos/vagrant-network.nix files.

When declaring the provisioner it is recommended to add the `run: 'always'`
attribute to make sure that changes to the Vagrantfile are reflected during
reload.

See the configuration in our
[NixOS packer template](http://github.com/zimbatm/nixbox) for an example.

## Issues

It's a bit slow on the initial boot/provision at the moment as it must run
nixos-rebuild several times. This is far from ideal I'm sure I'll find a
better place to hook in the rebuild step soon.
